tests/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/README.adoc, before:

:input_name: jms:input
:output_name: jms:output

=== Stub Runner Camel

Spring Cloud Contract Verifier Stub Runner's messaging module gives you an easy way to integrate with Apache Camel.
For the provided artifacts it will automatically download the stubs and register the required
routes.

==== Adding it to the project

It's enough to have both Apache Camel and Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner on classpath.
Remember to annotate your test class with `@AutoConfigureStubRunner`.

==== Examples

===== Stubs structure

Let us assume that we have the following Maven repository with a deployed stubs for the
`camelService` application.

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
└── .m2
    └── repository
        └── io
            └── codearte
                └── accurest
                    └── stubs
                        └── camelService
                            ├── 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
                            │   ├── camelService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.pom
                            │   ├── camelService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar
                            │   └── maven-metadata-local.xml
                            └── maven-metadata-local.xml
----

And the stubs contain the following structure:

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
├── META-INF
│   └── MANIFEST.MF
└── repository
    ├── accurest
    │   ├── bookDeleted.groovy
    │   ├── bookReturned1.groovy
    │   └── bookReturned2.groovy
    └── mappings
----

Let's consider the following contracts (let' number it with *1*):

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl,indent=0]
----

and number *2*

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl_2,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 1 (no input message)

So as to trigger a message via the `return_book_1` label we'll use the `StubTigger` interface as follows

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to `{output_name}`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 2 (output triggered by input)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `{output_name}` destination.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_send,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to `{output_name}`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 3 (input with no output)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `{output_name}` destination.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_no_output,indent=0]
----

Commit message:

Proofreading pass
I proofread the documentation and made it more formal.

tests/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/README.adoc, after:

:input_name: jms:input
:output_name: jms:output

=== Stub Runner Camel

Spring Cloud Contract Verifier Stub Runner's messaging module gives you an easy way to
integrate with Apache Camel. For the provided artifacts, it automatically downloads the
stubs and registers the required routes.

==== Adding the Runner to the Project

You can have both Apache Camel and Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner on the classpath.
Remember to annotate your test class with `@AutoConfigureStubRunner`.

==== Examples

Assume that you have the following Maven repository with deployed stubs for the
`camelService` application:

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
└── .m2
    └── repository
        └── io
            └── codearte
                └── accurest
                    └── stubs
                        └── camelService
                            ├── 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
                            │   ├── camelService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.pom
                            │   ├── camelService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar
                            │   └── maven-metadata-local.xml
                            └── maven-metadata-local.xml
----

Further assume that the stubs contain the following structure:

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
├── META-INF
│   └── MANIFEST.MF
└── repository
    ├── accurest
    │   ├── bookDeleted.groovy
    │   ├── bookReturned1.groovy
    │   └── bookReturned2.groovy
    └── mappings
----

Consider the following contracts (numbered *1*):

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl,indent=0]
----

Now consider *2*

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl_2,indent=0]
----

These examples lend themselves to three scenarios:

* <<camel-scenario-1>>
* <<camel-scenario-2>>
* <<camel-scenario-3>>

[[camel-scenario-1]]
===== Scenario 1 (no input message)

To trigger a message via the `return_book_1` label, use the `StubTigger` interface, as
follows:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

To listen to the output of the message sent to `{output_name}`:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_receive,indent=0]
----

The received message passes the following assertions:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_message,indent=0]
----

[[camel-scenario-2]]
===== Scenario 2 (output triggered by input)

Since the route is set for you, you can send a message to the `{output_name}`
destination:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_send,indent=0]
----

You can listen to the output of the message sent to `{output_name}`:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive,indent=0]
----

The received message passes the following assertions:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive_message,indent=0]
----

[[camel-scenario-3]]
===== Scenario 3 (input with no output)

Since the route is set for you, you can send a message to the `{output_name}`
destination:

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_no_output,indent=0]
----
