docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier/contract.adoc, before:

=== Contract DSL

IMPORTANT: Remember that inside the contract file you have to provide the fully qualified name to
the `Contract` class and the `make` static import i.e. `org.springframework.cloud.spec.Contract.make { ... }`.
You can also provide an import to the `Contract` class `import org.springframework.cloud.spec.Contract` and then call
  `Contract.make { ... }`

Contract DSL is written in Groovy, but don't be alarmed if you didn't use Groovy before. Knowledge of the language is not really needed as our DSL uses only
a tiny subset of it (namely literals, method calls and closures). What's more the DSL is designed to be programmer-readable without any knowledge of the DSL itself -
 it's statically typed.

The Contract is present in the `spring-cloud-contract-spec` module of the Spring Cloud Contract Verifier repository.

Let's look at full example of a contract definition.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_example,indent=0]
----

Not all features of the DSL are used in example above. If you didn't find what you are looking for, please check next paragraphs on this page.

> You can easily compile Contracts to WireMock stubs mapping using standalone maven command: `mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:convert`.

==== Limitations

WARNING: Spring Cloud Contract Verifier doesn't support XML properly. Please use JSON or help us implement this feature.

WARNING: Spring Cloud Contract Verifier supports equality check on text response. Regular expressions are not yet available.

WARNING: The support for the verification of size of JSON arrays is experimental. If you want to turn it on please provide
the value of a system property `spring.cloud.contract.verifier.assert.size` equal to `true`. By default this feature is set to
`false`. You can also provide the `assertJsonSize` property in the plugin configuration.

WARNING: Due to the fact that JSON structure can have any form it's sometimes impossible to parse it properly when using
the `value(consumer(...), producer(...))` notation when using that in GString. That's why we highly recommend using the
Groovy Map notation.

==== HTTP Top-Level Elements

Following methods can be called in the top-level closure of a contract definition. Request and response are mandatory, priority is optional.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=http_dsl,indent=0]
----

==== Request

HTTP protocol requires only **method and address** to be specified in a request. The same information is mandatory in request definition of the Contract.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=request,indent=0]
----

It is possible to specify whole `url` instead of just path, but `urlPath` is the recommended way as it makes the tests **host-independent**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=url,indent=0]

----

Request may contain **query parameters**, which are specified in a closure nested in a call to `urlPath` or `url`.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=urlpath,indent=0]
----

It may contain additional **request headers**...

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=headers,indent=0]
----

...and a **request body**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=body,indent=0]
----

//**Body's format** can also be specified explicitly by invoking one of format functions.
//
//[source,groovy,indent=0]
//----
//include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=bodyAsXml,indent=0]
//----

==== Response

Minimal response must contain **HTTP status code**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=response,indent=0]
----

Besides status response may contain **headers** and **body**, which are specified the same way as in the request (see previous paragraph).

==== Dynamic properties

The contract can contain some dynamic properties - timestamps / ids etc. You don't want to enforce the consumers to stub their
clocks to always return the same value of time so that it gets matched by the stub. That's why we allow you to provide the dynamic
parts in your contracts in the following way

either via the `value` method

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
value(consumer(...), producer(...))
value(stub(...), test(...))
value(client(...), server(...))
----

or if you're using the Groovy map notation for body you can use the `$()` method

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
$(consumer(...), producer(...))
$(stub(...), test(...))
$(client(...), server(...))
----

All of the aforementioned approaches are equal. That means that `stub` and `client` methods are aliases over the `consumer`
method. Let's take a closer look at what we can do with those values in the subsequent sections.

==== Regular expressions

You can use regular expressions to write your requests in Contract DSL. It is particularly useful when you want to indicate that a given response
should be provided for requests that follow a given pattern. Also, you can use it when you need to use patterns and not exact values both
for your test and your server side tests.

Please see the example below:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=regex,indent=0]
----

You can also provide only one side of the communication using a regular expression. If you do that then automatically we'll
provide the generated string that matches the provided regular expression. For example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_one_side_data_generation_example,indent=0]
----

In this example for request and response the opposite side of the communication will have the respective data generated.

Spring Cloud Contract comes with a series of predefined regular expressions that you can use in your contracts.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{contract_spec_path}/src/main/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/spec/internal/RegexPatterns.groovy[tags=regexps,indent=0]
----

so in your contract you can use it like this

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=contract_with_regex,indent=0]
----


==== Passing optional parameters

It is possible to provide optional parameters in your contract. It's only possible to have optional parameter for the:

- __STUB__ side of the Request
- __TEST__ side of the Response

Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals,indent=0]
----

By wrapping a part of the body with the `optional()` method you are in fact creating a regular expression that should be present 0 or more times.

That way for the example above the following test would be generated if you pick Spock:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals_test,indent=0]
----

and the following stub:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-converters/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/wiremock/DslToWireMockClientConverterSpec.groovy[tags=wiremock,indent=0]
----

==== Executing custom methods on server side
It is also possible to define a method call to be executed on the server side during the test. Such a method can be added to the class defined as "baseClassForTests"
in the configuration. Please see the examples below:

===== Contract DSL

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=method,indent=0]
----

===== Base Mock Spec

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/bootSimple/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/twitter/places/BaseMockMvcSpec.groovy[tags=base_class,indent=0]
----

==== JAX-RS support
Starting with release 0.8.0 we support JAX-RS 2 Client API. Base class needs to define `protected WebTarget webTarget` and server initialization, right now the only option how to test JAX-RS API is to start a web server.

Request with a body needs to have a content type set otherwise `application/octet-stream` is going to be used.

In order to use JAX-RS mode, use the following settings:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
testMode === 'JAXRSCLIENT'
----

Example of a test API generated:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/JaxRsClientMethodBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=jaxrs,indent=0]
----

==== Async support

If you're using asynchronous communication on the server side (your controllers are returning
`Callable`, `DeferredResult` etc. then inside your contract you have to provide in the `response`
section a `async()` method. Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
org.springframework.cloud.contract.spec.Contract.make {
    request {
        method 'GET'
        url '/get'
    }
    response {
        status 200
        body 'Passed'
        async()
    }
}
----


==== Messaging Top-Level Elements

The DSL for messaging looks a little bit different than the one that focuses on HTTP.

===== Output triggered by a method

The output message can be triggered by calling a method (e.g. a Scheduler was started and a message was sent)

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/samples-messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/com/example/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=method_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a method called `bookReturnedTriggered` will be executed. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will call that method to trigger the message. On the *consumer* side you can use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

===== Output triggered by a message

The output message can be triggered by receiving a message.

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/samples-messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/com/example/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=message_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a proper message will be received on the `input` destination. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will send the input message to the defined destination. On the *consumer* side you can either send a message to the input
destination or use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

===== Consumer / Producer

In HTTP you have a notion of `client`/`stub and `server`/`test` notation. You can use them also in messaging but we're providing also the `consumer` and `produer` methods
as presented below (note you can use either `$` or `value` methods to provide `consumer` and `producer` parts)

[source,groovy]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MessagingMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=consumer_producer]
----

Commit message:

Added ignored to contracts
without this change the only way to ignore a contract was to provide it in the plugin's config

with this change you can also set it on the contract itself.

fixes #30

docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier/contract.adoc, after:

=== Contract DSL

IMPORTANT: Remember that inside the contract file you have to provide the fully qualified name to
the `Contract` class and the `make` static import i.e. `org.springframework.cloud.spec.Contract.make { ... }`.
You can also provide an import to the `Contract` class `import org.springframework.cloud.spec.Contract` and then call
  `Contract.make { ... }`

Contract DSL is written in Groovy, but don't be alarmed if you didn't use Groovy before. Knowledge of the language is not really needed as our DSL uses only
a tiny subset of it (namely literals, method calls and closures). What's more the DSL is designed to be programmer-readable without any knowledge of the DSL itself -
 it's statically typed.

The Contract is present in the `spring-cloud-contract-spec` module of the Spring Cloud Contract Verifier repository.

Let's look at full example of a contract definition.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_example,indent=0]
----

Not all features of the DSL are used in example above. If you didn't find what you are looking for, please check next paragraphs on this page.

> You can easily compile Contracts to WireMock stubs mapping using standalone maven command: `mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:convert`.

==== Limitations

WARNING: Spring Cloud Contract Verifier doesn't support XML properly. Please use JSON or help us implement this feature.

WARNING: Spring Cloud Contract Verifier supports equality check on text response. Regular expressions are not yet available.

WARNING: The support for the verification of size of JSON arrays is experimental. If you want to turn it on please provide
the value of a system property `spring.cloud.contract.verifier.assert.size` equal to `true`. By default this feature is set to
`false`. You can also provide the `assertJsonSize` property in the plugin configuration.

WARNING: Due to the fact that JSON structure can have any form it's sometimes impossible to parse it properly when using
the `value(consumer(...), producer(...))` notation when using that in GString. That's why we highly recommend using the
Groovy Map notation.

==== Common Top-Level elements

===== Description

You can add a `description` to your contract that is nothing else but an arbitrary text. Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{contract_spec_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/spec/internal/ContractSpec.groovy[tags=description,indent=0]
----

===== Ignoring contracts

If you want to ignore a contract you can either set a value of ignored contracts in the plugin configuration
or just set the `ignored` property on the contract itself:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{contract_spec_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/spec/internal/ContractSpec.groovy[tags=ignored,indent=0]
----

==== HTTP Top-Level Elements

Following methods can be called in the top-level closure of a contract definition. Request and response are mandatory, priority is optional.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=http_dsl,indent=0]
----

==== Request

HTTP protocol requires only **method and address** to be specified in a request. The same information is mandatory in request definition of the Contract.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=request,indent=0]
----

It is possible to specify whole `url` instead of just path, but `urlPath` is the recommended way as it makes the tests **host-independent**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=url,indent=0]

----

Request may contain **query parameters**, which are specified in a closure nested in a call to `urlPath` or `url`.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=urlpath,indent=0]
----

It may contain additional **request headers**...

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=headers,indent=0]
----

...and a **request body**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=body,indent=0]
----

//**Body's format** can also be specified explicitly by invoking one of format functions.
//
//[source,groovy,indent=0]
//----
//include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=bodyAsXml,indent=0]
//----

==== Response

Minimal response must contain **HTTP status code**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=response,indent=0]
----

Besides status response may contain **headers** and **body**, which are specified the same way as in the request (see previous paragraph).

==== Dynamic properties

The contract can contain some dynamic properties - timestamps / ids etc. You don't want to enforce the consumers to stub their
clocks to always return the same value of time so that it gets matched by the stub. That's why we allow you to provide the dynamic
parts in your contracts in the following way

either via the `value` method

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
value(consumer(...), producer(...))
value(stub(...), test(...))
value(client(...), server(...))
----

or if you're using the Groovy map notation for body you can use the `$()` method

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
$(consumer(...), producer(...))
$(stub(...), test(...))
$(client(...), server(...))
----

All of the aforementioned approaches are equal. That means that `stub` and `client` methods are aliases over the `consumer`
method. Let's take a closer look at what we can do with those values in the subsequent sections.

==== Regular expressions

You can use regular expressions to write your requests in Contract DSL. It is particularly useful when you want to indicate that a given response
should be provided for requests that follow a given pattern. Also, you can use it when you need to use patterns and not exact values both
for your test and your server side tests.

Please see the example below:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=regex,indent=0]
----

You can also provide only one side of the communication using a regular expression. If you do that then automatically we'll
provide the generated string that matches the provided regular expression. For example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_one_side_data_generation_example,indent=0]
----

In this example for request and response the opposite side of the communication will have the respective data generated.

Spring Cloud Contract comes with a series of predefined regular expressions that you can use in your contracts.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{contract_spec_path}/src/main/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/spec/internal/RegexPatterns.groovy[tags=regexps,indent=0]
----

so in your contract you can use it like this

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=contract_with_regex,indent=0]
----


==== Passing optional parameters

It is possible to provide optional parameters in your contract. It's only possible to have optional parameter for the:

- __STUB__ side of the Request
- __TEST__ side of the Response

Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals,indent=0]
----

By wrapping a part of the body with the `optional()` method you are in fact creating a regular expression that should be present 0 or more times.

That way for the example above the following test would be generated if you pick Spock:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals_test,indent=0]
----

and the following stub:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-converters/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/wiremock/DslToWireMockClientConverterSpec.groovy[tags=wiremock,indent=0]
----

==== Executing custom methods on server side
It is also possible to define a method call to be executed on the server side during the test. Such a method can be added to the class defined as "baseClassForTests"
in the configuration. Please see the examples below:

===== Contract DSL

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=method,indent=0]
----

===== Base Mock Spec

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/bootSimple/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/twitter/places/BaseMockMvcSpec.groovy[tags=base_class,indent=0]
----

==== JAX-RS support
Starting with release 0.8.0 we support JAX-RS 2 Client API. Base class needs to define `protected WebTarget webTarget` and server initialization, right now the only option how to test JAX-RS API is to start a web server.

Request with a body needs to have a content type set otherwise `application/octet-stream` is going to be used.

In order to use JAX-RS mode, use the following settings:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
testMode === 'JAXRSCLIENT'
----

Example of a test API generated:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/JaxRsClientMethodBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=jaxrs,indent=0]
----

==== Async support

If you're using asynchronous communication on the server side (your controllers are returning
`Callable`, `DeferredResult` etc. then inside your contract you have to provide in the `response`
section a `async()` method. Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
org.springframework.cloud.contract.spec.Contract.make {
    request {
        method 'GET'
        url '/get'
    }
    response {
        status 200
        body 'Passed'
        async()
    }
}
----


==== Messaging Top-Level Elements

The DSL for messaging looks a little bit different than the one that focuses on HTTP.

===== Output triggered by a method

The output message can be triggered by calling a method (e.g. a Scheduler was started and a message was sent)

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/samples-messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/com/example/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=method_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a method called `bookReturnedTriggered` will be executed. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will call that method to trigger the message. On the *consumer* side you can use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

===== Output triggered by a message

The output message can be triggered by receiving a message.

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/samples-messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/com/example/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=message_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a proper message will be received on the `input` destination. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will send the input message to the defined destination. On the *consumer* side you can either send a message to the input
destination or use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

===== Consumer / Producer

In HTTP you have a notion of `client`/`stub and `server`/`test` notation. You can use them also in messaging but we're providing also the `consumer` and `produer` methods
as presented below (note you can use either `$` or `value` methods to provide `consumer` and `producer` parts)

[source,groovy]
----
include::{verifier_core_path}/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/verifier/builder/MessagingMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=consumer_producer]
----
