spring-cloud-contract-tools/spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin/src/site/asciidoc/usage.adoc, before:

= Usage

== Converting Spring Cloud Contract DSL into WireMock stub mappings

   mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:convert

or shortly footnoteref:[prefix,Additional configuration inside `~/.m2/settings.xml` is required: `<pluginGroups><pluginGroup> org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin</pluginGroup></pluginGroups>`.]

    mvn spring-cloud-contract-verifier:convert

For more information please go to the Spring Cloud Contract Wiki or Plugin Documentation Site.

== Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner

Run stubs mappings from current directory:

    mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:run

or shortly footnoteref:[prefix]

    mvn spring-cloud-contract-verifier:run

== Running stubs from repository

    mvn spring-cloud-contract-verifier:run -Dstubs="org.springframework:gs-rest-service"

where `org.springframework:gs-rest-service` is artifact with stubs classifier contains WireMock mappings.

== Project configuration

[source,xml]
----
include::../../../src/test/projects/spring-boot-java/pom.xml[tags=plugin]
----

Commit message:

Fix `pluginGroups` entry info. Fix plugin call examples. Add info about necessary directory setup.

spring-cloud-contract-tools/spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin/src/site/asciidoc/usage.adoc, after:

= Usage

== Converting Spring Cloud Contract DSL into WireMock stub mappings

   mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:convert

or shortly footnoteref:[prefix,Additional configuration inside `~/.m2/settings.xml` is required: `<pluginGroups><pluginGroup>org.springframework.cloud</pluginGroup></pluginGroups>`.]

    mvn spring-cloud-contract:convert

For more information please go to the Spring Cloud Contract Wiki or Plugin Documentation Site.

== Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner

Run stubs mappings from current directory:

    mvn org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-contract-maven-plugin:run

or shortly footnoteref:[prefix]

    mvn spring-cloud-contract:run

== Running stubs from repository

    mvn spring-cloud-contract:run -Dstubs="org.springframework:gs-rest-service"

where `org.springframework:gs-rest-service` is artifact with stubs classifier contains WireMock mappings.

In order for the goal to be executed correctly, `target/stubs` subdirectory should be added in the directory from which
the command will be executed.

== Project configuration

[source,xml]
----
include::../../../src/test/projects/spring-boot-java/pom.xml[tags=plugin]
----
