docs/src/docs/asciidoc/contract.adoc, before:

== Contract DSL

Contract DSL in Accurest is written in Groovy, but don't be alarmed if you didn't use Groovy before. Knowledge of the language is not really needed as our DSL uses only
a tiny subset of it (namely literals, method calls and closures). What's more, Accurest's DSL is designed to be programmer-readable without any knowledge of the DSL itself -
 it's statically typed.

Let's look at full example of a contract definition.


[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_example,indent=0]
----

Not all features of the DSL are used in example above. If you didn't find what you are looking for, please check next paragraphs on this page.

> You can easily compile Accurest Contracts to WireMock stubs mapping using standalone maven command: `mvn io.codearte.accurest:accurest-maven-plugin:convert`.

=== HTTP Top-Level Elements

Following methods can be called in the top-level closure of a contract definition. Request and response are mandatory, priority is optional.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=http_dsl,indent=0]
----

=== Request

HTTP protocol requires only **method and address** to be specified in a request. The same information is mandatory in request definition of Accurest contract.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=request,indent=0]
----

It is possible to specify whole `url` instead of just path, but `urlPath` is the recommended way as it makes the tests **host-independent**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=url,indent=0]

----

Request may contain **query parameters**, which are specified in a closure nested in a call to `urlPath` or `url`.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=urlpath,indent=0]
----

It may contain additional **request headers**...

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=headers,indent=0]
----

...and a **request body**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=body,indent=0]
----

**Body's format** can also be specified explicitly by invoking one of format functions.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=bodyAsXml,indent=0]
----

=== Response

Minimal response must contain **HTTP status code**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=response,indent=0]
----

Besides status response may contain **headers** and **body**, which are specified the same way as in the request (see previous paragraph).

=== Regular expressions
You can use regular expressions to write your requests in Contract DSL. It is particularly useful when you want to indicate that a given response
should be provided for requests that follow a given pattern. Also, you can use it when you need to use patterns and not exact values both
for your test and your server side tests.

Please see the example below:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=regex,indent=0]
----

=== Passing optional parameters

It is possible to provide optional parameters in your contract. It's only possible to have optional parameter for the:

- __STUB__ side of the Request
- __TEST__ side of the Response

Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals,indent=0]
----

By wrapping a part of the body with the `optional()` method you are in fact creating a regular expression that should be present 0 or more times.

That way for the example above the following test would be generated if you pick Spock:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals_test,indent=0]
----

and the following stub:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-converters/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/wiremock/DslToWireMockClientConverterSpec.groovy[tags=wiremock,indent=0]
----

=== Executing custom methods on server side
It is also possible to define a method call to be executed on the server side during the test. Such a method can be added to the class defined as "baseClassForTests"
in the configuration. Please see the examples below:

==== Groovy DSL

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=method,indent=0]
----

==== Base Mock Spec

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/bootSimple/src/test/groovy/com/ofg/twitter/places/BaseMockMvcSpec.groovy[tags=base_class,indent=0]
----

=== JAX-RS support
Starting with release 0.8.0 we support JAX-RS 2 Client API. Base class needs to define `protected WebTarget webTarget` and server initialization, right now the only option how to test JAX-RS API is to start a web server.

Request with a body needs to have a content type set otherwise `application/octet-stream` is going to be used.

In order to use JAX-RS mode, use the following settings:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
testMode == 'JAXRSCLIENT'
----

Example of a test API generated:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/JaxRsClientMethodBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=jaxrs,indent=0]
----

=== Messaging Top-Level Elements

WARNING: Feature available since {messaging_version}

The DSL for messaging looks a little bit different than the one that focuses on HTTP.

==== Output triggered by a method

The output message can be triggered by calling a method (e.g. a Scheduler was started and a message was sent)

[source,groovy]
----
include::../../../../samples/messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/samples/messaging/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=method_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a method called `bookReturnedTriggered` will be executed. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will call that method to trigger the message. On the *consumer* side you can use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

==== Output triggered by a message

The output message can be triggered by receiving a message.

[source,groovy]
----
include::../../../../samples/messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/samples/messaging/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=message_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a proper message will be received on the `input` destination. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will send the input message to the defined destination. On the *consumer* side you can either send a message to the input
destination or use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

Commit message:

Added Accurest class for DSL

docs/src/docs/asciidoc/contract.adoc, after:

== Contract DSL

Contract DSL in Accurest is written in Groovy, but don't be alarmed if you didn't use Groovy before. Knowledge of the language is not really needed as our DSL uses only
a tiny subset of it (namely literals, method calls and closures). What's more, Accurest's DSL is designed to be programmer-readable without any knowledge of the DSL itself -
 it's statically typed.

WARNING: Since {messaging_version} you can use the `io.codearte.accurest.Accurest` class in your DSL files.

Let's look at full example of a contract definition.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/MockMvcMethodBodyBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=dsl_example,indent=0]
----

Not all features of the DSL are used in example above. If you didn't find what you are looking for, please check next paragraphs on this page.

> You can easily compile Accurest Contracts to WireMock stubs mapping using standalone maven command: `mvn io.codearte.accurest:accurest-maven-plugin:convert`.

=== HTTP Top-Level Elements

Following methods can be called in the top-level closure of a contract definition. Request and response are mandatory, priority is optional.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=http_dsl,indent=0]
----

=== Request

HTTP protocol requires only **method and address** to be specified in a request. The same information is mandatory in request definition of Accurest contract.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=request,indent=0]
----

It is possible to specify whole `url` instead of just path, but `urlPath` is the recommended way as it makes the tests **host-independent**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=url,indent=0]

----

Request may contain **query parameters**, which are specified in a closure nested in a call to `urlPath` or `url`.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=urlpath,indent=0]
----

It may contain additional **request headers**...

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=headers,indent=0]
----

...and a **request body**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=body,indent=0]
----

**Body's format** can also be specified explicitly by invoking one of format functions.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=bodyAsXml,indent=0]
----

=== Response

Minimal response must contain **HTTP status code**.

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=response,indent=0]
----

Besides status response may contain **headers** and **body**, which are specified the same way as in the request (see previous paragraph).

=== Regular expressions
You can use regular expressions to write your requests in Contract DSL. It is particularly useful when you want to indicate that a given response
should be provided for requests that follow a given pattern. Also, you can use it when you need to use patterns and not exact values both
for your test and your server side tests.

Please see the example below:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=regex,indent=0]
----

=== Passing optional parameters

It is possible to provide optional parameters in your contract. It's only possible to have optional parameter for the:

- __STUB__ side of the Request
- __TEST__ side of the Response

Example:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals,indent=0]
----

By wrapping a part of the body with the `optional()` method you are in fact creating a regular expression that should be present 0 or more times.

That way for the example above the following test would be generated if you pick Spock:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=optionals_test,indent=0]
----

and the following stub:

[source,javascript,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-converters/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/wiremock/DslToWireMockClientConverterSpec.groovy[tags=wiremock,indent=0]
----

=== Executing custom methods on server side
It is also possible to define a method call to be executed on the server side during the test. Such a method can be added to the class defined as "baseClassForTests"
in the configuration. Please see the examples below:

==== Groovy DSL

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/ContractHttpDocsSpec.groovy[tags=method,indent=0]
----

==== Base Mock Spec

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/bootSimple/src/test/groovy/com/ofg/twitter/places/BaseMockMvcSpec.groovy[tags=base_class,indent=0]
----

=== JAX-RS support
Starting with release 0.8.0 we support JAX-RS 2 Client API. Base class needs to define `protected WebTarget webTarget` and server initialization, right now the only option how to test JAX-RS API is to start a web server.

Request with a body needs to have a content type set otherwise `application/octet-stream` is going to be used.

In order to use JAX-RS mode, use the following settings:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
testMode == 'JAXRSCLIENT'
----

Example of a test API generated:

[source,groovy,indent=0]
----
include::../../../../accurest-core/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/builder/JaxRsClientMethodBuilderSpec.groovy[tags=jaxrs,indent=0]
----

=== Messaging Top-Level Elements

WARNING: Feature available since {messaging_version}

The DSL for messaging looks a little bit different than the one that focuses on HTTP.

==== Output triggered by a method

The output message can be triggered by calling a method (e.g. a Scheduler was started and a message was sent)

[source,groovy]
----
include::../../../../samples/messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/samples/messaging/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=method_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a method called `bookReturnedTriggered` will be executed. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will call that method to trigger the message. On the *consumer* side you can use the `some_label` to trigger the message.

==== Output triggered by a message

The output message can be triggered by receiving a message.

[source,groovy]
----
include::../../../../samples/messaging-integration/src/test/groovy/io/codearte/accurest/samples/messaging/IntegrationMessagingApplicationSpec.groovy[tags=message_trigger,indent=0]
----

In this case the output message will be sent to `output` if a proper message will be received on the `input` destination. In the message *publisher's* side
we will generate a test that will send the input message to the defined destination. On the *consumer* side you can either send a message to the input
destination or use the `some_label` to trigger the message.
