docs/src/main/asciidoc/building.adoc, before:

== How to build it

=== Project structure

Here you can find the Spring Cloud Contract folder structure

```
├── samples
├── scripts
├── spring-cloud-contract-dependencies
├── spring-cloud-contract-spec
├── spring-cloud-contract-starters
├── spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner
├── spring-cloud-contract-tools
├── spring-cloud-contract-verifier
├── spring-cloud-contract-wiremock
└── tests
```

 - `samples` - folder contains test samples together with standalone ones used also to build documentation
 - `scripts` - contains scripts to build and test `Spring Cloud Contract` with Maven, Gradle and standalone projects
 - `spring-cloud-contract-dependencies` - contains Spring Cloud Contract BOM
 - `spring-cloud-contract-starters` - contains Spring Cloud Contract Starters
 - `spring-cloud-contract-spec` - contains specification modules (contains concept of a Contract)
 - `spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner` - contains Stub Runner related modules
 - `spring-cloud-contract-tools` - Gradle and Maven plugin for `Spring Cloud Contract Verifier`
 - `spring-cloud-contract-verifier` - core of the `Spring Cloud Contract Verifier` functionality
 - `spring-cloud-contract-wiremock` - all WireMock related functionality
 - `tests` - integration tests for different messaging technologies

=== Commands

To build the core functionality together with Maven Plugin you can run

```
./mvnw clean install -P integration
```

Calling that function will build core, Maven plugin, Gradle plugin and run end to end tests on the
standalone samples in proper order (both for Maven and Gradle).

To build the Gradle Plugin only

```
cd spring-cloud-contract-tools/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin
./gradlew clean build
```

Commit message:

Updated info about Groovy plugins
fixes #122

docs/src/main/asciidoc/building.adoc, after:

== How to build it

IMPORTANT: You need to have all the necessary Groovy plugins
 installed for your IDE to properly resolve the sources. For example in
 Intellij IDEA having both Eclipse Groovy Compiler Plugin & GMavenPlus Intellij Plugin
 results in properly imported project.

=== Project structure

Here you can find the Spring Cloud Contract folder structure

```
├── samples
├── scripts
├── spring-cloud-contract-dependencies
├── spring-cloud-contract-spec
├── spring-cloud-contract-starters
├── spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner
├── spring-cloud-contract-tools
├── spring-cloud-contract-verifier
├── spring-cloud-contract-wiremock
└── tests
```

 - `samples` - folder contains test samples together with standalone ones used also to build documentation
 - `scripts` - contains scripts to build and test `Spring Cloud Contract` with Maven, Gradle and standalone projects
 - `spring-cloud-contract-dependencies` - contains Spring Cloud Contract BOM
 - `spring-cloud-contract-starters` - contains Spring Cloud Contract Starters
 - `spring-cloud-contract-spec` - contains specification modules (contains concept of a Contract)
 - `spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner` - contains Stub Runner related modules
 - `spring-cloud-contract-tools` - Gradle and Maven plugin for `Spring Cloud Contract Verifier`
 - `spring-cloud-contract-verifier` - core of the `Spring Cloud Contract Verifier` functionality
 - `spring-cloud-contract-wiremock` - all WireMock related functionality
 - `tests` - integration tests for different messaging technologies

=== Commands

To build the core functionality together with Maven Plugin you can run

```
./mvnw clean install -P integration
```

Calling that function will build core, Maven plugin, Gradle plugin and run end to end tests on the
standalone samples in proper order (both for Maven and Gradle).

To build the Gradle Plugin only

```
cd spring-cloud-contract-tools/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin
./gradlew clean build
```
