:core_path: ../../../..
:doc_samples: {core_path}/samples/wiremock-jetty

Modules giving you the possibility to use
http://wiremock.org[WireMock] with different servers by using the
"ambient" server embedded in a Spring Boot application. Check out the
https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-contract/tree/master/samples[samples]
for more details.

If you have a Spring Boot application that uses Tomcat as an embedded
server, for example (the default with `spring-boot-starter-web`), then
you can simply add `spring-cloud-contract-wiremock` to your classpath
and add `@AutoConfigureWireMock` in order to be able to use Wiremock
in your tests. Wiremock runs as a stub server and you can register
stub behaviour using a Java API or via static JSON declarations as
part of your test. Here's a simple example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::{doc_samples}/src/test/java/com/example/WiremockForDocsTests.java[tags=wiremock_test1]
include::{doc_samples}/src/test/java/com/example/WiremockForDocsTests.java[tags=wiremock_test2]
----

To start the stub server on a different port use `@AutoConfigureWireMock(port=9999)` (for example), and for a random port use the value 0. The stub server port will be bindable in the test application context as "wiremock.server.port". Using `@AutoConfigureWireMock` adds a bean of type `WiremockConfiguration` to your test application context, where it will be cached in between methods and classes having the same context, just like for normal Spring integration tests.

=== Registering Stubs Automatically

If you add a `stubs` attribute to your `@AutoConfigureWireMock` then
it will register WireMock JSON stubs from the file system or
classpath. The stubs attribute can be a resource pattern (ant-style)
or a directory, in which case `**/*.json` is appended. Example:

----
@RunWith(SpringRunner.class)
@SpringBootTest
@AutoConfigureWireMock(stubs="classpath:/stubs")
public class WiremockImportApplicationTests {

	@Autowired
	private Service service;

	@Test
	public void contextLoads() throws Exception {
		assertThat(this.service.go()).isEqualTo("Hello World!");
	}

}
----

=== Alternative: Using JUnit Rules

For a more conventional WireMock experience, using JUnit `@Rules` to
start and stop the server, just use the `WireMockSpring` convenience
class to obtain an `Options` instance:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::{doc_samples}/src/test/java/com/example/WiremockForDocsClassRuleTests.java[tags=wiremock_test1]
include::{doc_samples}/src/test/java/com/example/WiremockForDocsClassRuleTests.java[tags=wiremock_test2]
----

The use `@ClassRule` means that the server will shut down after all the methods in this class.

== WireMock and Spring MVC Mocks

Spring Cloud Contract provides a convenience class that can load JSON WireMock stubs into a
Spring `MockRestServiceServer`. Here's an example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
include::{doc_samples}/src/test/java/com/example/WiremockForDocsMockServerApplicationTests.java[tags=wiremock_test]
----

The `baseUrl` is prepended to all mock calls, and the `stubs()`
method takes a stub path resource pattern as an argument. So in this
example the stub defined at `/stubs/resource.json` is loaded into the
mock server, so if the `RestTemplate` is asked to visit
`https://example.org/` it will get the responses as declared
there. More than one stub pattern can be specified, and each one can
be a directory (for a recursive list of all ".json"), or a fixed
filename (like in the example above) or an ant-style pattern. The JSON
format is the normal WireMock format which you can read about in the
WireMock website.

Currently we support Tomcat, Jetty and Undertow as Spring Boot
embedded servers, and Wiremock itself has "native" support for a
particular version of Jetty (currently 9.2). To use the native Jetty
you need to add the native wiremock dependencies and exclude the
Spring Boot container if there is one.

== Generating Stubs using RestDocs

https://projects.spring.io/spring-restdocs[Spring RestDocs] can be
used to generate documentation (e.g. in asciidoctor format) for an
HTTP API with Spring MockMvc or RestEasy. At the same time as you
generate documentation for your API, you can also generate WireMock
stubs, by using Spring Cloud Contract WireMock. Just write your normal
RestDocs test cases and use `@AutoConfigureRestDocs` to have stubs
automatically in the restdocs output directory. For example:


[source,java,indent=0]
----
@RunWith(SpringRunner.class)
@SpringBootTest
@AutoConfigureRestDocs(outputDir = "target/snippets")
@AutoConfigureMockMvc
public class ApplicationTests {

	@Autowired
	private MockMvc mockMvc;

	@Test
	public void contextLoads() throws Exception {
		mockMvc.perform(get("/resource"))
				.andExpect(content().string("Hello World"))
				.andDo(document("resource"));
	}
}
----

From this test will be generated a WireMock stub at
"target/snippets/stubs/resource.json". It matches all GET requests to
the "/resource" path.

Without any additional configuration this will create a stub with a
request matcher for the HTTP method and all headers except "host" and
"content-length". To match the request more precisely, for example to
match the body of a POST or PUT, we need to explicitly create a
request matcher. This will do two things: 1) create a stub that only
matches the way you specify, 2) assert that the request in the test
case also matches the same conditions.

The main entry point for this is `WireMockRestDocs.verify()` which can
be used as a substitute for the `document()` convenience method. For
example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
@RunWith(SpringRunner.class)
@SpringBootTest
@AutoConfigureRestDocs(outputDir = "target/snippets")
@AutoConfigureMockMvc
public class ApplicationTests {

	@Autowired
	private MockMvc mockMvc;

	@Test
	public void contextLoads() throws Exception {
		mockMvc.perform(post("/resource")
                .content("{\"id\":\"123456\",\"message\":\"Hello World\"}"))
				.andExpect(status.isOk())
				.andDo(verify().jsonPath("$.id")
                        .stub("resource"));
	}
}
----

So this contract is saying: any valid POST with an "id" field will get
back an the same response as in this test. You can chain together
calls to `.jsonPath()` to add additional matchers. The
https://github.com/jayway/JsonPath[JayWay documentation] can help you
to get up to speed with JSON Path if it is unfamiliar to you.

Instead of the `jsonPath` and `contentType` convenience methods, you
can also use the WireMock APIs to verify the request matches the
created stub. Example:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
	@Test
	public void contextLoads() throws Exception {
		mockMvc.perform(post("/resource")
                .content("{\"id\":\"123456\",\"message\":\"Hello World\"}"))
				.andExpect(status.isOk())
				.andDo(verify()
						.wiremock(WireMock.post(
							urlPathEquals("/resource"))
							.withRequestBody(matchingJsonPath("$.id"))
                        .stub("post-resource"));
	}
----

The WireMock API is rich - you can match headers, query parameters,
and request body by regex as well as by json path - so this can useful
to create stubs with a wider range of parameters. The above example
will generate a stub something like this:

.post-resource.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "request" : {
    "url" : "/resource",
    "method" : "POST",
    "bodyPatterns" : [ {
      "matchesJsonPath" : "$.id"
    }]
  },
  "response" : {
    "status" : 200,
    "body" : "Hello World",
    "headers" : {
      "X-Application-Context" : "application:-1",
      "Content-Type" : "text/plain"
    }
  }
}
----

NOTE: You can use either the `wiremock()` method or the `jsonPath()`
and `contentType()` methods to create request matchers, but not both.

On the consumer side, assuming the `resource.json` generated above is
available on the classpath, you can create a stub using WireMock in a
number of different ways, including as described above using
`@AutoConfigureWireMock(stubs="classpath:resource.json")`.