docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier_stubrunner.adoc, before:

== Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner

One of the issues that you might encounter while using Spring Cloud Contract Verifier is
passing the generated WireMock JSON stubs from the server side to the client side (or to
various clients). The same takes place in terms of client-side generation for messaging.

Copying the JSON files and setting the client side for messaging manually is out of the
question. That is why we introduced Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner. It can
automatically download and run the stubs for you.

=== Snapshot versions

Add the additional snapshot repository to your `build.gradle` file to use snapshot
versions, which are automatically uploaded after every successful build:

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
include::{standalone_samples_path}/http-server/pom.xml[tags=repos,indent=0]
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
include::{standalone_samples_path}/http-server/build.gradle[tags=repos,indent=0]
----

=== Publishing Stubs as JARs

The easiest approach would be to centralize the way stubs are kept. For example, you can
keep them as jars in a Maven repository.

TIP: For both Maven and Gradle, the setup comes ready to work. However, you can customize
it if you want to.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
<!-- First disable the default jar setup in the properties section -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/pom.xml[tags=skip_jar,indent=0]

<!-- Next add the assembly plugin to your build -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/pom.xml[tags=assembly,indent=0]

<!-- Finally setup your assembly. Below you can find the contents of src/main/assembly/stub.xml -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/src/assembly/stub.xml[indent=0]
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/scenarioProject/build.gradle[tags=jar_setup,indent=0]
----

include::{stubrunner_core_path}/README.adoc[]

=== Common

This section briefly describes common properties, including:

* <<common-properties-junit-spring>>
* <<stub-runner-stub-ids>>

[[common-properties-junit-spring]]
==== Common Properties for JUnit and Spring

You can set repetitive properties by using system properties or Spring configuration
properties. Here are their names with their default values:

[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===============
| Property name | Default value | Description
|stubrunner.minPort|10000| Minimum value of a port for a started WireMock with stubs.
|stubrunner.maxPort|15000| Maximum value of a port for a started WireMock with stubs.
|stubrunner.repositoryRoot|| Maven repo URL. If blank, then call the local maven repo.
|stubrunner.classifier|stubs| Default classifier for the stub artifacts.
|stubrunner.workOffline|false| If true, then do not contact any remote repositories to
download stubs.
|stubrunner.ids|| Array of Ivy notation stubs to download.
|stubrunner.username|| Optional username to access the tool that stores the JARs with
stubs.
|stubrunner.password|| Optional password to access the tool that stores the JARs with
stubs.
|stubrunner.stubsPerConsumer|false| Set to `true` if you want to use different stubs for
each consumer instead of registering all stubs for every consumer.
|stubrunner.consumerName|| If you want to use a stub for each consumer and want to
override the consumer name just change this value.
|===============

[[stub-runner-stub-ids]]
==== Stub Runner Stubs IDs

You can provide the stubs to download via the `stubrunner.ids` system property. They
follow this pattern:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
groupId:artifactId:version:classifier:port
----

Note that `version`, `classifier` and `port` are optional.

* If you do not provide the `port`, a random one will be picked.
* If you do not provide the `classifier`, the default is used. (Note that you can
pass an empty classifier this way: `groupId:artifactId:version:`).
* If you do not provide the `version`, then the `+` will be passed and the latest one is
downloaded.

`port` means the port of the WireMock server.

IMPORTANT: Starting with version 1.0.4, you can provide a range of versions that you
would like the Stub Runner to take into consideration. You can read more about the
https://wiki.eclipse.org/Aether/New_and_Noteworthy#Version_Ranges[Aether versioning
ranges here].

Commit message:

Introduces explicit mode of stub downloading (#503)
* Introduces explicit mode of stub downloading

you have to explicitly provide the mode [CLASSPATH, REMOTE, LOCAL] of how you want to fetch and register stubs

fixes gh-287

docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier_stubrunner.adoc, after:

== Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner

One of the issues that you might encounter while using Spring Cloud Contract Verifier is
passing the generated WireMock JSON stubs from the server side to the client side (or to
various clients). The same takes place in terms of client-side generation for messaging.

Copying the JSON files and setting the client side for messaging manually is out of the
question. That is why we introduced Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner. It can
automatically download and run the stubs for you.

=== Snapshot versions

Add the additional snapshot repository to your `build.gradle` file to use snapshot
versions, which are automatically uploaded after every successful build:

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
include::{standalone_samples_path}/http-server/pom.xml[tags=repos,indent=0]
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
include::{standalone_samples_path}/http-server/build.gradle[tags=repos,indent=0]
----

=== Publishing Stubs as JARs

The easiest approach would be to centralize the way stubs are kept. For example, you can
keep them as jars in a Maven repository.

TIP: For both Maven and Gradle, the setup comes ready to work. However, you can customize
it if you want to.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
<!-- First disable the default jar setup in the properties section -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/pom.xml[tags=skip_jar,indent=0]

<!-- Next add the assembly plugin to your build -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/pom.xml[tags=assembly,indent=0]

<!-- Finally setup your assembly. Below you can find the contents of src/main/assembly/stub.xml -->
include::{samples_url}/producer_with_restdocs/src/assembly/stub.xml[indent=0]
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
include::{plugins_path}/spring-cloud-contract-gradle-plugin/src/test/resources/functionalTest/scenarioProject/build.gradle[tags=jar_setup,indent=0]
----

include::{stubrunner_core_path}/README.adoc[]

=== Common

This section briefly describes common properties, including:

* <<common-properties-junit-spring>>
* <<stub-runner-stub-ids>>

[[common-properties-junit-spring]]
==== Common Properties for JUnit and Spring

You can set repetitive properties by using system properties or Spring configuration
properties. Here are their names with their default values:

[frame="topbot",options="header"]
|===============
| Property name | Default value | Description
|stubrunner.minPort|10000| Minimum value of a port for a started WireMock with stubs.
|stubrunner.maxPort|15000| Maximum value of a port for a started WireMock with stubs.
|stubrunner.repositoryRoot|| Maven repo URL. If blank, then call the local maven repo.
|stubrunner.classifier|stubs| Default classifier for the stub artifacts.
|stubrunner.stubsMode|CLASSPATH| The way you want to fetch and register the stubs
|stubrunner.ids|| Array of Ivy notation stubs to download.
|stubrunner.username|| Optional username to access the tool that stores the JARs with
stubs.
|stubrunner.password|| Optional password to access the tool that stores the JARs with
stubs.
|stubrunner.stubsPerConsumer|false| Set to `true` if you want to use different stubs for
each consumer instead of registering all stubs for every consumer.
|stubrunner.consumerName|| If you want to use a stub for each consumer and want to
override the consumer name just change this value.
|===============

[[stub-runner-stub-ids]]
==== Stub Runner Stubs IDs

You can provide the stubs to download via the `stubrunner.ids` system property. They
follow this pattern:

[source,java,indent=0]
----
groupId:artifactId:version:classifier:port
----

Note that `version`, `classifier` and `port` are optional.

* If you do not provide the `port`, a random one will be picked.
* If you do not provide the `classifier`, the default is used. (Note that you can
pass an empty classifier this way: `groupId:artifactId:version:`).
* If you do not provide the `version`, then the `+` will be passed and the latest one is
downloaded.

`port` means the port of the WireMock server.

IMPORTANT: Starting with version 1.0.4, you can provide a range of versions that you
would like the Stub Runner to take into consideration. You can read more about the
https://wiki.eclipse.org/Aether/New_and_Noteworthy#Version_Ranges[Aether versioning
ranges here].
