docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier_stubrunner_msg.adoc, before:

== Stub Runner for Messaging

Stub Runner has the functionality to run the published stubs in memory. It can integrate with the following frameworks out of the box

- Spring Integration
- Spring Cloud Stream
- Apache Camel
- Spring AMQP

It also provides points of entry to integrate with any other solution on the market.

=== Stub triggering

To trigger a message it's enough to use the `StubTrigger` interface:

[source,groovy]
----
include::{stubrunner_core_path}/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/StubTrigger.java[lines=16..-1]
----

For convenience the `StubFinder` interface extends `StubTrigger` so it's enough to use only one in your tests.

`StubTrigger` gives you the following options to trigger a message:

==== Trigger by label

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger by group and artifact ids

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_group_artifact,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger by artifact ids

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_artifact,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger all messages

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_all,indent=0]
----

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-integration/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-stream/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-amqp/README.adoc[]

Commit message:

Adding note in the docs about Stubrunner and messaging; fixes #407

docs/src/main/asciidoc/verifier_stubrunner_msg.adoc, after:

== Stub Runner for Messaging

Stub Runner has the functionality to run the published stubs in memory. It can integrate with the following frameworks out of the box

- Spring Integration
- Spring Cloud Stream
- Apache Camel
- Spring AMQP

It also provides points of entry to integrate with any other solution on the market.

IMPORTANT: If you have multiple frameworks on the classpath Stub Runner will need to
define which one should be used. Let's assume that you have both AMQP, Spring Cloud Stream and Spring Integration
on the classpath. Then you need to set `stubrunner.stream.enabled=false` and `stubrunner.integration.enabled=false`.
That way the only remaining framework is Spring AMQP.

=== Stub triggering

To trigger a message it's enough to use the `StubTrigger` interface:

[source,groovy]
----
include::{stubrunner_core_path}/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/StubTrigger.java[lines=16..-1]
----

For convenience the `StubFinder` interface extends `StubTrigger` so it's enough to use only one in your tests.

`StubTrigger` gives you the following options to trigger a message:

==== Trigger by label

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger by group and artifact ids

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_group_artifact,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger by artifact ids

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_artifact,indent=0]
----

==== Trigger all messages

[source,groovy]
----
include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/camel/CamelStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_all,indent=0]
----

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-camel/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-integration/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-stream/README.adoc[]

include::{tests_path}/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-amqp/README.adoc[]
