tests/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-stream/README.adoc, before:

=== Stub Runner Stream

Spring Cloud Contract Verifier Stub Runner's messaging module gives you an easy way to integrate with Spring Stream.
For the provided artifacts it will automatically download the stubs and register the required
routes.

WARNING: In Stub Runner's integration with Stream the `messageFrom` or `sentTo` Strings are resolved
first as a `destination` of a channel, and then if there is no such `destination` it's resolved as a
channel name.

IMPORTANT: If you want to use Spring Cloud Stream remember to add a
`org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-stream-test-support` dependency.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-stream-test-support</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
testCompile "org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-stream-test-support"
----

==== Adding it to the project

It's enough to have both Spring Cloud Stream and Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner on classpath.
Remember to annotate your test class with `@AutoConfigureStubRunner`.

==== Examples

===== Stubs structure

Let us assume that we have the following Maven repository with a deployed stubs for the
`streamService` application.

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
└── .m2
    └── repository
        └── io
            └── codearte
                └── accurest
                    └── stubs
                        └── streamService
                            ├── 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
                            │   ├── streamService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.pom
                            │   ├── streamService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar
                            │   └── maven-metadata-local.xml
                            └── maven-metadata-local.xml
----

And the stubs contain the following structure:

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
├── META-INF
│   └── MANIFEST.MF
└── repository
    ├── accurest
    │   ├── bookDeleted.groovy
    │   ├── bookReturned1.groovy
    │   └── bookReturned2.groovy
    └── mappings
----

Let's consider the following contracts (let' number it with *1*):

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl,indent=0]
----

and number *2*

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl_2,indent=0]
----

and the following Spring configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
include::src/test/resources/application.yml[]
----


===== Scenario 1 (no input message)

So as to trigger a message via the `return_book_1` label we'll use the `StubTrigger` interface as follows

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to a channel whose `destination` is `returnBook`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 2 (output triggered by input)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `bookStorage` `destination`.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_send,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to `returnBook`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 3 (input with no output)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `{output_name}` destination.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_no_output,indent=0]
----

Commit message:

Adding note in the docs about Stubrunner and messaging; fixes #407

tests/spring-cloud-contract-stub-runner-stream/README.adoc, after:

=== Stub Runner Stream

Spring Cloud Contract Verifier Stub Runner's messaging module gives you an easy way to integrate with Spring Stream.
For the provided artifacts it will automatically download the stubs and register the required
routes.

WARNING: In Stub Runner's integration with Stream the `messageFrom` or `sentTo` Strings are resolved
first as a `destination` of a channel, and then if there is no such `destination` it's resolved as a
channel name.

IMPORTANT: If you want to use Spring Cloud Stream remember to add a
`org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-stream-test-support` dependency.

[source,xml,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="primary"]
.Maven
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-stream-test-support</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

[source,groovy,indent=0,subs="verbatim,attributes",role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
testCompile "org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-stream-test-support"
----

==== Adding it to the project

It's enough to have both Spring Cloud Stream and Spring Cloud Contract Stub Runner on classpath.
Remember to annotate your test class with `@AutoConfigureStubRunner`.

==== Disabling the functionality

If you need to disable this functionality just pass `stubrunner.stream.enabled=false` property.

==== Examples

===== Stubs structure

Let us assume that we have the following Maven repository with a deployed stubs for the
`streamService` application.

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
└── .m2
    └── repository
        └── io
            └── codearte
                └── accurest
                    └── stubs
                        └── streamService
                            ├── 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
                            │   ├── streamService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.pom
                            │   ├── streamService-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT-stubs.jar
                            │   └── maven-metadata-local.xml
                            └── maven-metadata-local.xml
----

And the stubs contain the following structure:

[source,bash,indent=0]
----
├── META-INF
│   └── MANIFEST.MF
└── repository
    ├── accurest
    │   ├── bookDeleted.groovy
    │   ├── bookReturned1.groovy
    │   └── bookReturned2.groovy
    └── mappings
----

Let's consider the following contracts (let' number it with *1*):

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl,indent=0]
----

and number *2*

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=sample_dsl_2,indent=0]
----

and the following Spring configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
include::src/test/resources/application.yml[]
----


===== Scenario 1 (no input message)

So as to trigger a message via the `return_book_1` label we'll use the `StubTrigger` interface as follows

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to a channel whose `destination` is `returnBook`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_trigger_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 2 (output triggered by input)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `bookStorage` `destination`.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_send,indent=0]
----

Next we'll want to listen to the output of the message sent to `returnBook`

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive,indent=0]
----

And the received message would pass the following assertions

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=client_receive_message,indent=0]
----

===== Scenario 3 (input with no output)

Since the route is set for you it's enough to just send a message to the `{output_name}` destination.

[source,groovy]
----
include::src/test/groovy/org/springframework/cloud/contract/stubrunner/messaging/stream/StreamStubRunnerSpec.groovy[tags=trigger_no_output,indent=0]
----
